President Obama:
After the worst recession
since the Great Depression,
our economy is growing again,
and we've gained almost
2 million private sector
jobs over the last 13 months.
But I also know that a lot of
folks aren't feeling as positive
as some of those
statistics might suggest.
It's still too
hard to find a job.
And even if you have a job,
chances are you're having a
tougher time paying the rising
costs of everything from
groceries to gas.
In some places, gas is
now more than $4 a gallon,
meaning that you could be paying upwards
of $50 or $60 to fill up your tank.
Of course, while rising gas
prices mean real pain for our
families at the pump, they also mean
bigger profits for oil companies.
This week, the largest oil
companies announced that they'd
made more than $25 billion in
the first few months of 2011 --
up about 30% from last year.
Now, I don't have any problem
with any company or industry
being rewarded
for their success.
The incentive of healthy profits
is what fuels entrepreneurialism
and helps drive our
economy forward.
But I do have a problem with
unwarranted taxpayer subsidies
that we've been handing out
to oil and gas companies --
to the tune of $4
billion a year.
When oil companies are
making huge profits already,
and you're struggling
at the pump,
and we're scouring the federal
budget for spending we can
afford to do without, these
tax giveaways aren't right.
They aren't smart.
And we need to end them.
That's why, earlier this week, I
renewed my call to Congress to
stop subsidizing the
oil and gas industries.
Understand, I'm not
opposed to producing oil.
I believe that if we're serious
about meeting our energy
challenge, we need to
operate on all cylinders,
and that means pursuing a
broad range of energy policies,
including safe and a responsible
oil production here at home.
In fact, last year, America's
oil production reached its
highest level since 2003.
But I also believe that instead
of subsidizing yesterday's
energy, we should
invest in tomorrow's --
and that's what
we've been doing.
Already, we've seen how the
investments we're making in
clean energy can lead to new
jobs and new businesses.
I've seen some of them myself --
small businesses that are making
the most of solar
and wind power,
and energy-efficient technologies;
big companies that are making
fuel-efficient cars and trucks
part of their vehicle fleets.
And to promote these
kinds of vehicles,
we implemented historic
new fuel-economy standards,
which could save you as
much as $3,000 at the pump.
Now, I know that in this
tough fiscal environment,
it's tempting for some in
Washington to want to cut our
investments in clean energy.
And I absolutely agree that the
only way we'll be able to afford
the things we need is if
we cut the things we don't,
and live within our means.
But I refuse to cut things like
clean energy that will help
America win the future by
growing our economy and creating
good-paying jobs that will
help make America more secure,
and that will help clean up
our planet in the process.
An investment in clean energy
today is an investment in a
better tomorrow.
And I think that's an
investment worth making.
Thanks for listening,
and have a great weekend.